hi in this video I'm going to show you
the strumming pattern from my song to
live you can see the song by clicking on
the video link shown right here you can
also purchase the sheet music and tabs
by clicking on the link in the info
section or by going to John Clark music
calm the time signature up to live is in
4/4 it is played throughout in triplets
that means each quarter note beat is
evenly divided into three right hand
finger attacks for the strumming section
the count is 1 & 2 & 3 & 4 and the
triplet is broken down to a hit down up
finger attack combo hit down up the
first attack is made by using a very
lightly clenched fist the nail side of
the fingers should be facing the strings
and about parallel with the palm of your
hand your hand should move in an inward
motion toward where a roundabout where
the sound hole and the fretboard meet
sometimes up a little bit higher
sometimes it below that lower depending
on the sound that you like basically an
inward motion like this after the nail
side of the fingers hit the strings in
the first attack it continued downward
scraping the strings for the second
attack this is achieved by extending the
fingers out from the top position while
rotating the wrist the fingernails
scrape the strings as they move past
like this that's the second attack I'm
here after the first attack second
attack the third attack is with the nail
side of the thumb the thumb should
already be pointing downwards so all you
have to do is rotate the thumb upwards
scraping the strings on the way like
this that's the third attack now in the
chord progression from the song to live
I used E minor B flat major C major c7
and F major
and I play it like this I'll play it
slow at first and then I'll play it fast
[Music]
slow fast ok now I'll play it one last
time without counting out the beats
[Music]
thanks for watching this video
again you can listen to the whole song
by clicking the link right here you can
also purchase my sheet music and tab
transcriptions from my website John
Clark music calm thank you